# How MemoryTracks Works

The user is shown 4 items (picture, colour or number) at random, when he or she clicks on "New Set".  When "Hide" is clicked, the items are covered up.  The user must then drag images from the bottom to the 4 empty spots on the right of where the hidden items are.  The user clicks "Reveal" when done to see if he or she guessed right.  This is how it operates using just one track.

If two tracks are in use, the user is shown 4 items on track 2 and then these are hidden.  The user then goes to track 1 and goes through some predetermined number of sets there, exercising more immediate memory.  When that is done, the user returns to track 2 and tries to guess the items that were hidden there.  After those have been guessed, another set is shown and then hidden and the user goes back to track 1.  

The user's position can be saved.  This is where practice of longer term memory comes in.  A user might, for example, use the program to do track 1 a number of times, get shown the track 2 items, hide them, save the position and shut the program down until the next day.  The user would then have to do track 1 and then try to remember the track 2 items from the day before.  Users can pick any time interval between uses of the program.  Those desiring a greater challenge can add track 3 to their memory practice efforts.

The "Options" button displays a screen where users can pick how many tracks they will have operating, how many sets will be guessed per track, will it be pictures, numbers, colours or a mixture of the three and how many different pictures, numbers or colours will items be chosen from.

To help prevent confusion, the "Active Track" area will have the circle for the track currently in use highlighted.  The highlighting will change automatically when it is time to switch to a different track.  Only the circles for the tracks that the user is using will be displayed on the screen. For example, if the user is only using Tracks 1 and 2, the Track 3 circle will not be there.